Snap Values Policy Policy Your resource for understanding the rules and policies across Snapchat. Community Guidelines We created these guidelines to encourage the broadest range of self-expression, while striving to make sure Snapchatters can use our services safely every day.

Content Guidelines Additional standards for algorithmic recommendation beyond the creator’s friends or subscribers Creator Monetization Policy Content must adhere to the policies to be eligible for monetization.

Advertising Policies These apply to all aspects of advertisements served by Snap. Commercial Content Policy Applies to commercial content on the Snap platform other than ads served by Snap.

Privacy Privacy Policy This Policy explains how we collect and use your data and how you can control your information. Privacy Principles At Snap, we make your privacy a priority. We know your trust is earned every time you use Snapchat, or any of our other products and Services.

Privacy by Product Saving Snaps was designed with privacy in mind. You control whether your Snaps can be saved within Snapchat. Privacy Through Security Features and recommendations to help secure your account.

Teens on Snapchat Additional protections for teens on Snapchat. Snap and Ads How we collect, use, and share your data with respect to ads.

Privacy Center Privacy policies tend to be pretty long — and pretty confusing. That’s why we did our best to make our Privacy Policy brief, clear, and easy-to-read! Learn More

Safety Safety Center Here are some steps you can take to help stay safe! Safety Policies We created these safety policies to help our community enhance their relationships with friends, family, and the world. Safety Resources We work with industry experts and non-governmental agencies to provide resources and support to Snapchatters in need.

Safety Advisory Board Meet Snap's Safety Advisory Board members Council for Digital Well-Being Meet Snap's Council for Digital Well-Being Digital Well-Being Index Snap's Digital Well-Being Index highlights Gen Z's attitudes and perceptions about life online. Information for Law Enforcement Snap is committed to assisting law enforcement while respecting the privacy and rights of our users.

Financial Sextortion We work with industry experts and non-governmental agencies to provide resources and support to Snapchatters. Combating Illicit Drugs We work with industry experts and non-governmental agencies to provide resources and support to Snapchatters. Report a Safety Concern If you ever experience harassment, bullying, or any other safety concern, you can always report it right to us. Report an Underage Account Learn how to report an account you believe is under the minimum age to use Snapchat (including under 13).

Information for Parents The Parent’s Guide to Snapchat covers how Snapchat works, the key protections we offer for teens, how to use our parental controls, and answers common questions. Learn More

Transparency Transparency Report Transparency Report Twice a year, we publish transparency reports to provide insight and visibility into the nature and volume of content and accounts reported to us.

Resources Glossary Definitions of commonly used terms, policies, and operational practices discussed in our transparency report. Ads Gallery Find European Union and Turkiye ads that delivered in the last 12 months and commercial content that’s live right now. Researchers For EU DSA Research Requests. Election Integrity Overview of Snap's approach to safeguarding the integrity of elections around the world.

About In our Transparency Report, we disclose data regarding our safety efforts across our platform. Here we provide additional context and insight into our safety principles, policies, and practices, as well as links to various safety and privacy resources. Learn More

News

Community Guidelines Community Guidelines Overview
Sexual Content
Threats, Violence, & Harm
Hateful Content, Terrorism, and Violent Extremism
Harassment and Bullying
Illegal or Regulated Activities
Harmful False or Deceptive Practices

Policy Center
Community Guidelines

At Snap, we empower people to express themselves, live in the moment, learn about the world, and have fun together. We created these Community Guidelines, in line with our commitment to respecting human rights , to encourage self-expression while helping Snapchatters stay safe.
Community Guidelines are the rules that govern what is and is not allowed on Snapchat. These guidelines apply to all content and all who use or interact with Snapchat. This includes usernames and display names , Bitmojis, text, images, videos, generative AI, links or attachments, emojis, stickers, Lenses and other creative tools. It also applies to all behavior on Snapchat, including user-to-user interaction, as well as behavior that affects the integrity of our ecosystem, such as inauthentic activity or deceptive practices designed to manipulate Snap’s platform or products.
If these policies are violated, we may take action on the offending account, including by removing violating content, issuing warnings, limiting visibility of the account or content, or terminating the account. If your account is disabled for violating these guidelines, you are not allowed to use Snapchat again without our permission.
We want these guidelines to be clear and easy to understand. As noted in our Terms of Service , these guidelines, including the linked Explainers, are part of your agreement with Snap . Please see our Terms of Service and check your local laws to make sure you are old enough to join our community.

Note About Severe Harm

While we prohibit all content or behavior that violates our Community Guidelines, we are especially concerned with violations that pose a risk of severe harm to Snapchatters. Severe harms include child sexual exploitation, terrorism, and violent extremism, as well as other illegal content and conduct. When we identify accounts engaging in severe harm on Snapchat, we disable those accounts. Guidance about how we reduce the time that this content is visible on Snapchat and how we take action against it can be found in the Severe Harm explainer and relevant explainers linked throughout these guidelines.

Learn More

Additional policies and restrictions may apply

In addition to our Community Guidelines, we have additional policies for users who wish to reach a broader audience or monetize their content. In order to be eligible for algorithmic recommendation beyond the creator’s friends or followers, content must comply with our Content Guidelines for Recommendation Eligibility . Advertisers must comply with our Advertising Policies , which require that they are honest about their products, services, and content. Sponsored content, or organic promotion of products or services must adhere to our Commercial Content Policy . Please note that some regulated goods and activities may only be promoted by eligible accounts through approved advertising or sponsored content channels. Creators who wish to participate in monetization programs must follow our Monetization Policy . Media partners must comply with our Content Partner Terms , which requires their content to be accurate and, where appropriate, fact-checked. Developers are also subject to Developer Terms . Lenses must adhere to our Lens Studio Guidelines .
Snap offers generative AI features through our services and we expect Snapchatters to use AI responsibly. We implement safeguards designed to help keep generative AI content in line with our Community Guidelines, and to promote transparency so that no one is confused about the authenticity of content generated with Snapchat’s AI tools. On Spotlight and Discover, our content recommendation algorithms prioritize authentic content . Some regions require users to clearly disclose or label AI-generated content. You are responsible for ensuring your use and sharing of synthetic media meets the transparency requirements in your region. We reserve the right to take appropriate enforcement action against accounts that use AI to violate our Community Guidelines, abuse our AI products, or violate local laws. Our enforcement actions can include termination of an account.
We've outlined here and in our Terms of Service specific rules for content that is prohibited on Snapchat. We work to ensure these rules are applied consistently. When applying them, we take into account the nature of the content, including whether it is newsworthy, factual, and relates to a matter of political, social, or educational value. Additional context about how we moderate content and enforce our policies is available in our Moderation explainer . We also provide links to more detailed information about our Community Guidelines in each of the sections below.

We want Snapchat to be a safe and positive experience for everyone. We reserve the right to decide, at our sole discretion, what content or behavior violates the spirit of our rules. While we have the right to review, moderate, or remove any content from our platform, we do not proactively review all of it. We use a combination of automated tools and human review to help address concerns and moderate content. We cannot guarantee that other users will comply with our Community Guidelines or that our platform will be free of violating content. We strongly encourage Snapchatters to report any content that may be violating so that our teams can review and take appropriate action.

Community Guidelines

Our Community Guidelines apply to all content and behavior on Snapchat's platform and products, and cover the following topics:

Sexual Content We prohibit any activity that involves sexual exploitation or abuse, or sexualization, of a minor, including sharing child sexual exploitation or abuse imagery, grooming for sexual purposes, sexual extortion (sextortion), or attempts to persuade, trick, or coerce a minor with the intent of sexual abuse or exploitation. Never post, save, send, forward, distribute, or ask for nude or sexually explicit content involving anyone under the age of 18 (this includes sending or saving such images of yourself). We prohibit any engagement with child sexual exploitation or abuse imagery, regardless of intention, even the sharing of such content is to raise awareness or express concern. We report all identified instances of child sexual exploitation and attempts to engage in such conduct to the appropriate authorities, including the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children (NCMEC), in line with legal requirements.

We prohibit promoting, distributing, or sharing pornographic content, including unsolicited sexual imagery (such as cyberflashing), s haring non-consensual intimate imagery, or engaging in sextortion. We also prohibit sexual harassment and commercial activities that relate to pornography or sexual interactions (whether online or offline).

Breastfeeding and other depictions of nudity in non-sexual contexts are generally permitted, unless posted without the subject’s consent.

Learn More

Threats, Violence, and Harm Encouraging or engaging in violent or dangerous behavior is prohibited. Never intimidate or threaten to harm a person, a group of people, or someone’s property.

Threats to human life or serious physical injury that target a school, workplace, or place of worship, including a shooting or bomb threat, will be taken seriously. Do not make jokes threatening this type of behavior. Such statements may result in your account being enforced for violation of these Guidelines, regardless of intent.
We know, however, that keeping our community safe sometimes means speaking up. If you are sharing a threat made by someone else strictly to warn others, seek help, or alert authorities (for example, warning classmates about a threat made against a school), this is allowed. Always report these threats to local authorities and/or a trusted adult immediately.

Content depicting gratuitous or graphic violence, including animal abuse, is not allowed.

Graphic depictions of serious injury (whether real or realistic) to humans or animals are not allowed, except in the context of news coverage (for example, reporting from war zones — and even in such instances, we encourage blurring or obscuring graphic harm).

We don’t allow the glorification, promotion, encouragement, or assistance of self-harm, such as self-injury, suicide, eating disorders, or other forms of serious self-harm. We also prohibit the promotion or sharing of graphic self-harm content. When we see users engaging in this behavior, we may also send them resources.

Learn More

Hateful Content, Terrorism, and Violent Extremism We prohibit the use of our platform to support terrorist organizations, violent extremists, or hate groups. We also prohibit content that supports, glorifies, praises, or advocates for terrorism, violent extremism, or hate.

We prohibit hate speech or content that abuses, demeans, defames, promotes discrimination or violence, or incites hatred on the basis of race, color, caste, ethnicity, national origin, religion, sexual orientation, gender, gender identity or reassignment, disability, veteran status, immigration status, age, or pregnancy status.

Learn More

Harassment and Bullying We prohibit bullying and harassment.
We consider harassment to include any unwanted behavior that would cause an ordinary person to experience emotional distress, including mocking, shaming, rumor spreading, wishing harm on another party, sharing humiliating imagery (including manipulated or AI-generated imagery), or repeated, unwanted contact. If someone blocks you, you may not contact them from another Snapchat account.

We also prohibit non-consensual sharing of another person’s private content, imagery, or information, including sharing personally identifiable information (PII) for the purpose of harassment (i.e., “doxxing”).

Learn More

Illegal or Regulated Activities Using Snapchat to engage in illegal activity may result in account termination, and may be a crime. Do not use Snapchat to engage in or encourage illegal activity.

We prohibit facilitating, participating in, or encouraging human trafficking or human smuggling, as well as the promotion of gangs, organized crime, or recruiting for criminal activity.

We prohibit the glorification, sale, or distribution of illicit drugs (including prescription medication that is commonly abused, such as opioids, barbiturates, and amphetamines).

We prohibit the sale or distribution of regulated drugs (including prescription drugs) and substances.

We prohibit the sale or promotion of weapons (including fireworks or explosives), as well as the depiction of reckless or irresponsible weapons use.

We prohibit the promotion of certain goods or activities that are often regulated. This includes the attempted sale or promotion of regulated goods such as tobacco, alcohol, vape products. We also prohibit the sale, facilitation, or promotion of regulated services and activities, such as offering financial loans or other financial products or services, or promoting gambling services (including betting websites, gambling apps, tip or prediction services, or referral codes).

Learn More

Harmful False or Deceptive Practices We prohibit spreading false information that causes harm or is malicious, such as denying the existence of tragic events, unsubstantiated medical claims, undermining the integrity of civic processes, or manipulating content for false or misleading purposes (whether through generative AI or through deceptive editing).

We prohibit pretending to be someone (or something) that you’re not, or attempting to deceive people about who you are. This includes impersonating your friends, celebrities, public figures, brands, or other people or organizations for harmful, non-satirical purposes.

We prohibit spam, including pay-for-follower promotions or other follower-growth schemes, the promotion of spam applications, or the promotion of multilevel marketing or pyramid schemes.

We prohibit fraud and other deceptive practices, including undisclosed paid or sponsored content, the promotion of fraudulent (counterfeit) goods or services or get-rich-quick schemes, or imitating Snapchat or Snap Inc.

Learn More

Information and Q&A

How can I report something? You can submit a report to our safety teams using our in-app reporting features or by completing this form , which allows you to report a concern whether you have a Snapchat account or not. We review these reports to determine violations of these guidelines. The fastest and best way to report potential safety concerns to our safety teams is through the in-app reporting feature in the Snapchat app.
Residents of certain jurisdictions (for example, the E.U. or U.K.) may also have additional options for reporting content that they believe is illegal. You can find more information on our Support Site .

What happens if I violate the Community Guidelines? If you violate these Community Guidelines, we may remove the offending content, terminate or limit the visibility of your account or content, limit your access to certain features on Snapchat, notify law enforcement, and/or take technical steps to prevent you from creating or using another account.

We may refer information, potentially including content shared by users and other account data, to law enforcement when we believe activity poses an imminent threat to human life. We also report information to the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children (NCMEC), in line with legal requirements. Learn more in our Moderation explainer .

Do you consider off-platform behavior? Snap reserves the right to remove or restrict account access for users who we have reason to believe, in our sole discretion, pose a danger to others, on or off of Snapchat. Examples include convicted sex offenders, leaders of terrorist organizations, individuals who incite violence or perpetrate severe harms against others, or behavior that we believe poses a threat to human life. In evaluating such behavior, we may consider guidance from other sources, such as subject matter experts or law enforcement, in determining whether to remove or restrict account access.

Where can I find more information? Please visit our Safety Center for more information about safety and well-being on Snapchat. There, you’ll find detailed instructions on managing your Snapchat experience, including taking actions like updating your privacy settings, choosing who can see your content, and blocking other users.

Up Next:
Sexual Content

Read Next

Company
Snap Inc.
Careers
News
Privacy and Safety

Community
Snapchat Support
Spectacles Support
Community Guidelines

Advertising
Snapchat Ads
Advertising Policies
Political Ads Library
Brand Guidelines
Promotions Rules

Legal
Other Terms & Policies
Law Enforcement
Cookie Policy
Cookie Settings
Report Infringement

Privacy Policy
Terms of Service

Language English (US)
