Privacy Policy
Cookies
Privacy for younger children
Privacy for older children

Privacy Policy

Full Privacy Policy
Read this Privacy Policy in full

About Us and this Policy
The scope of this Privacy Policy
This Privacy Policy describes how the Sony Interactive Entertainment companies may collect and process information defined as personal information by the law in your country or region (“PI” or “Personal Information”), when you interact with PlayStation through our websites, products, services, or other online activities ("Services").
Who we are
The full PlayStation experience is brought to you by the Sony Interactive Entertainment companies (“SIE ”, “we,” “our” and “us”). The specific SIE company that controls the PI collected when you interact with PlayStation through our Services is set out below. If you have an account with PlayStation, the SIE company that controls the PI associated with that account will depend on the country or region your account is registered with. Depending on the Services you use, the first and third-party studios who develop games for PlayStation may also control the PI collected. You can find a list of these studios at https://www.playstation.com/corporate/playstation-studios/.
For the Americas, Sony Interactive Entertainment LLC.
For Europe, Africa, the Middle East, Australia, New Zealand or India, Sony Interactive Entertainment Europe Limited and its wholly owned subsidiary Sony Interactive Entertainment Network Europe Limited.
For the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, Mainland China, the Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan Region, or Thailand, Sony Interactive Entertainment Inc.
Personal Information That We Collect or Receive
Personal Information we collect about you
We collect and receive PI from and about you by different means as described below.
Personal Information You Provide to Us
We collect the PI that you directly provide to us, such as when you enter it on our website, or include it in an email that you send to us. This includes:
Registration or the creation of an account for PlayStation (“ Account ”), where you provide PI such as contact information (e.g., name, email or physical address, country or region, and phone number); Account administration information (e.g., username and password); billing information (e.g., payment card number and billing address); date of birth; and profile information (e.g., profile photo and languages).
Technical and customer support processes, where we may ask you to provide contact information and information about the issue you are contacting us about. We may also record calls you make to or receive from PlayStation Support.
Service features, where we may collect PI that you enter. For example, when you use features such as voice or text messaging, surveys, user-generated content, activity streams, or social media, we collect PI. When you want to post a review or in a blog, the content you provide for the blog post or review may contain PI which we collect and then display.
Other business processes, where you may provide PI such as name, email address, online ID, and PI collected as free text. For example, if you participate in market research surveys, beta and other user testing research, competitions, promotions or events, or agree to receive marketing communications from us.

Please make sure that any PI you provide is accurate and current. If we contact you with any important information about your Account we will send it to you using the contact information you have provided (including Account security and privacy notices). You can check and update some of the PI you have provided to us at any time via Account Management.
Automatic Personal Information Collection
We automatically collect PI about your use of our Services. This includes:
Consoles and other devices
Each time you use a PlayStation console or access our Services on other devices (such as a mobile phone or PC), we may automatically collect PI about your use of that device and the Services that you use and we may combine it with other PI. The PI that we collect from the devices that you use includes:
Device identifiers such as your PlayStation console ID, mobile device IDs, cookie IDs, or serial number.
Network identifiers such as your IP address and MAC address.
Account authentication tokens that avoid you having to log in to your PSN account repeatedly.
Content and ads downloaded to your device for the online services that you access.
Trophies, scores and rankings achieved online and offline.
Recordings of on-screen gameplay, in-game actions, menu navigation, and other actions taken within games.
Information about the device you are using, any connected peripherals (such as controllers and VR headsets), and how you have configured them.
Information about how you use the software installed on your device such as date and time of use, what games or music you play, what content you browse, share or download, what services you access and for how long, including how often you use chat and other communication applications.
The actions you take within games, apps or websites.
Software errors and load time details. If you have the “Report System Software Errors Automatically” setting turned on, detailed information about the error, including screenshots and video captured before the error.
Information about your device’s operating system and configuration, which may include system version, active security settings, time zone and language preferences, how long your device has been running, hardware performance information, whether your device is running applications that interfere with gameplay, and basic file information about games and associated software (such as file size and location).

If you use your PlayStation console offline, we may collect PI from your device the next time that you connect to the internet. For example, if you have played a game or application offline, we may store PI about that session on your device and collect this PI the next time you connect to the internet, for the purposes described in this Privacy Policy, including to provide our Services.
Depending on your region, for games and apps released after March 2018 you may be provided with choices that control our collection of PI. For further information on these options, refer to the Choices and Rights section of this Privacy Policy below.
Account
Each time you sign in to your Account and access our Services, we may automatically:
Collect PI about your use of PlayStation and our Services.
log your activity on our PlayStation servers. For example, we may receive device and Account identifiers, such as your PlayStation online ID (your username) and account ID (the unique number associated with your Account).
Collect details of the content, advertisements, and other information you request and receive from our servers (such as PlayStation content, trophies, content generated by other users, and friends lists) and how you interact with it; messages you send and receive, including their content; what content and apps you add to your 'basket' on PlayStation Store; and transaction information such as what you purchase.

Games
Each time you play a game developed and/or published by us, another Sony Interactive Entertainment company, or a third-party game publisher we may automatically:
Collect PI about your use of that game.
Log your activity on our game servers. For example, we may receive device and Account identifiers, such as PlayStation Online ID, PI about how you use our games, and which players you play with or against.

Cookies and Similar Technologies
If you interact with our Services, marketing communications, or advertising (on our or third party websites and services), we may automatically log your activity through the use of cookies (which are small text files stored on your computer) or similar technologies such as web beacons or tracking pixels. These technologies allow us to recognise you and remember your visit and preferences. We use cookies and similar technologies to provide our Services, including to monitor, secure and maintain our Services, detect and prevent fraud, analyze and improve our Services, and for advertising purposes.
Personal Information We Receive from Third Parties
We may receive PI from third party sources and combine it with PI we already collect from you. We may also collect PI from third party publicly available services, including those that share user generated content. We will handle the PI in accordance with this Privacy Policy. PI we receive from third party sources includes:
PI from game and social media companies with whom you link your Account, who power our Services, or whose services you access while signed in to your Account.
PI from other people, for example if someone engages with you or your content on our Services, submits a report of inappropriate behaviour or otherwise provides PI about you.
PI from third parties who provide services to us, for example information from anti-fraud service providers to help us identify fraudulent behaviour, information about suspected unlawful or malicious activity from law enforcement, or information about your activity on third party services you engage with from those services or from marketing or measurement service providers
Updated payment information provided by financial institutions or payment processors, for example when your payment card expires to help keep your payment cards up to date on your Account.

Personal Information Use
How we use the Personal Information we Collect or Receive
This section explains how we use the PI we collect or receive about you. We will only use your PI where we have a lawful basis to do so. The lawful bases we rely on depend on your account creation country, the type of relationship we have with you and how we interact with you. These lawful bases include the following:
To fulfil our contractual relationship with you and provide our products and services to you. For example, when you make a purchase on PlayStation Store we process your PI to take payment and deliver your purchase to you.
To fulfil our legitimate interests, or those of a third party in conducting and managing our business and our relationship with you as described in this Privacy Policy. For example, we rely on legitimate interest to detect and prevent fraud, the unauthorised use of our Services, and other harmful or illegal activity, including by reviewing reports submitted by other PlayStation users, improve our products and services, including by performing analytics and business reporting in relation to how you use our Services and any issues you may encounter, and share information with other Sony Group Corporation companies where necessary to support the security of our Services.
To meet our legal obligations under applicable law, including to comply with financial reporting requirements.
Where you have provided us consent to process your PI for a specific purpose, including to send marketing messages and personalized advertisements to you. When we process your PI on the basis of consent, you can withdraw your consent at any time. See the Choices and Rights section of this Privacy Policy for more information.

We may combine and process the PI we have collected about you for the purposes explained in this Privacy Policy.
Services
We use your PI to operate our Services. This includes:
To provide and operate the Services: for example, we will use your PI to enable you to sign in to our Services, make purchases, deliver our products and Services to you (including physical delivery if available in your country or region), earn trophies in-game, and interact with your friends online.
To personalize the Services: for example, we may use your IP address to display content relevant to your location, use voice or text data to deliver accessibility settings, or personalize recommendations or how the Services are presented to you.
To protect you and keep our Services secure: for example, we may verify that the PI you have provided is accurate or request additional PI (such as identity documentation or purchase information) to verify your age, identity, or that you purchased a product that you are leaving a review for, and we will process PI to detect and prevent fraudulent activity and transactions.
To develop, understand, improve and enhance our Services and your experience, and to develop and enhance technologies: for example, we may use PI to develop and optimise user interfaces, game performance, or new technologies, including developing and training artificial intelligence and machine learning models.

In addition, we may use information that does not identify you individually (such as de-identified or aggregated information) for business, operational, analytical or other purposes.
Moderation and Safety
While we strive to ensure the security of our Services and we maintain robust systems and processes, please be aware that it is not possible to continuously monitor every aspect of our Services. Under our Terms of Service, you and our other users are required to comply with our Code of Conduct. As such, we may monitor, review and record your online activities, communications (including messages, images, videos and voice communications) and content throughout our Services for the purposes of assessing whether these activities, communications, and content comply with our Terms of Service, our Code of Conduct, and any other terms or rules applicable to your use of our Services (together, "Terms”) or applicable law. We will also review reports made by you and other users for breaches of the Terms.
To do so, we may use technology that automatically detects online activities, communications, and content that may breach the Terms or applicable law (“Monitoring Technology”). We may also use the PI we collect (as described in this section and elsewhere in this Privacy Policy) to improve and develop Monitoring Technology. We may remove or delete any of your communications and content that breach the Terms or applicable law, take action on your account or device, and share these communications or content in accordance with this Privacy Policy.
Advertising and Analytics
Subject to your Account settings, we may target and personalize our marketing communications and advertisements (including those displayed on our Services and third party websites and services) based on the PI we have collected about you. You may notice this personalization on the PlayStation Store (whether via console, our website, or in-game), in marketing communications, or when you visit our and third party websites (such as social network sites) that show advertisements from us. We may also use this data to measure the performance of our websites, advertisements, and marketing campaigns, to understand how they can be improved and to pay or be paid for the placing of advertisements. You have options to control our use of PI to personalize marketing and advertising in your Account settings and can learn more about them in the Choices and Rights section of this Privacy Policy.
Legal and Compliance
We may use the PI we collect for auditing, compliance, and legal purposes, for example for protecting the rights and property of Sony, its partners and customers, or preparing assessments and reports required by applicable law.
Security
We may use the PI we collect and receive for security purposes in order to help protect SIE, you and others, including to:
Identify fraudulent activities and transactions.
Prevent abuse of and investigate and/or prosecute any potential threat to or misuse of our Services.
Protect your account from unauthorized access, for example by preventing access if an attempt is made to log-in from a new location.
Detect and prevent cheating, interference with online gameplay, the use of unauthorised software, and other attempts to undermine the integrity of SIE’s products and services.

Personal Information Sharing and Transfers
Who we share Personal Information with
This section explains how we may share the PI we collect with third parties that provide services to us or provide games and apps on our Services that you use. We do not and will not accept money in exchange for sharing PI.
Service Providers & Partners
We share PI with service providers to SIE, who are persons or companies that provide services which may include handling PI for any of the purposes described in this Privacy Policy, and partners who are persons or companies that SIE works with in ways that may include handling PI for any of the purposes described in this Privacy Policy. We may share PI with the following service providers and partners:
Financial organisations and payment processors in order to obtain payment, complete your purchase, and carry out credit and anti-fraud checks.
Game publishers and developers, who provide some of the games you may play on PlayStation, so that they can deliver that content to you in-game and ensure your entitlement to access that content is reflected across different gaming platforms.
Service, application or website providers, for operational purposes, or for additional purposes with your permission (such as when you link your Account to a third party account).
Security and fraud partners, to support the security of our Services and related third party services, fraud prevention, the detection and removal of harmful content and users who share harmful content, and to protect PI.
Advertising and promotional partners, to produce, personalize and deliver advertising, competitions and promotions related to services or features (including third party services).
Sony group companies, to provide you with content, products, or services, including games, videos, music, software and software applications; for community administration or development; to support various business and security processes; research and development; and so that other Sony group companies may contact you about products, services or other offerings that may be of interest to you.
Business transfer partners, in connection with the negotiation and sale of the applicable business, a portion of the business, or certain stock and/or assets, or a corporate merger, consolidation, restructuring, or other corporate change including during any due diligence process.

Other Users
You are responsible for any content you share using blogs, chat, and messaging features. This content will be accessible to other users who can then share that PI further. We recommend you consider carefully what you share and with whom you share your PI.
When you create an Account, certain PI will form part of your public profile and we will make it accessible to all Accounts on PlayStation, on the internet via playstation.com, and some third party websites, apps or services, including other gaming services and sites in games where cross-platform play is enabled. This PI includes:
Your PlayStation online ID;
Your "About Me" statement, avatar, language, country or region, and gaming scores and statistics; and
Content you have shared.

You can control how your PI is shared with other users using privacy settings. Please see https://www.playstation.com/support/account/privacy-settings/ for more information.
We may index and use content which you have shared publicly, as part of our platform’s features like Game Help, PlayStation profiles, or future Services. We may act on any harmful content you share, including as described in the Moderation & Safety section of this Privacy Policy.
Government & Authorities
We may share your PI with law enforcement, government, and other authorities if we believe that it is reasonably necessary to comply with a law, regulation, or legal process, to detect, protect and enforce the safety of any person, their property or their rights, to address fraud and security and report criminal activity.
Personal Information Handling
Children’s Personal Information
If you are below the age of majority in your country or region, your parent or legal guardian (“Responsible Adult”) must create your Account for you. Your Account is called a “Child Family Member Account ”, and your Responsible Adult’s Account is called a “Family Manager Account ”. The Family Manager Account can control your experience including what PI you make available to other users, who you can chat to, and what games you can play. You can find more information on https://www.playstation.com/support/account/playstation-family-account-set-up/.
Please ask your Responsible Adult to explain anything in this Privacy Policy you do not understand. You can also read our Privacy Information for Young Players to help you understand how we use your PI and your privacy rights over your PI.
If you are a Responsible Adult you will need to create an account for PlayStation before you can create a Child Family Member Account. Using your Family Manager Account, you can set a range of Parental Controls for any Child Family Member Accounts that you are responsible for. You can also invite other adults to join. You can also use the PlayStation Family App to manage your child or children’s account(s). Please find more information at https://www.playstation.com/ps-family-app/.
If you are a Responsible Adult creating a Child Family Member Account, we recommend that you and your child read our Privacy Information for Young Players to help you and your child understand how we handle their PI and their rights. You can find child friendly privacy information on PlayStation 5 at [Settings] > [Guide & Tips, Health & Safety, and Other Information] > [Legal Information] > [Other Documents] > [Privacy Information for Young Players], or on our website at: https://www.playstation.com/legal/privacy-information-for-young-players/
We will collect, use, and share PI collected from or about children in accordance with the practices described in this Privacy Policy, with the following exceptions:
PI You Provide to Us
A Responsible Adult needs to provide limited PI about their child (name, email address, and date of birth) to create a Child Family Member Account.
A child can only add an address to their Child Family Member Account with the Responsible Adult’s approval.

PI You May Choose to Share
A Responsible Adult can control their child's ability to use (and share PI through) text chat, voice chat, video chat, and other messaging features to communicate directly with other users in games, apps or via system software features through the “Communication and User-Generated Content” setting on the Child Family Member Account. Please note that a Child Family Member Account can still: (a) send and receive predetermined text messages created by a game or app; (b) create and see other users' in-game character names, designs, and clan titles; and (c) use communication services via an Internet browser unless it isn’t required for our Services or specifically disabled.

A Responsible Adult can control their child's ability to post or view user-generated content, including photos, videos, drawings, and content imported from outside sources (any of which might contain PI) through the “Communication and User-Generated Content” setting. This will not prevent video capture of a child Family Member Account user's online gameplay.
A Responsible Adult can agree to our collection and use of their child's PI without consenting to our disclosure to third parties, except when the disclosure is inherent to our Services.

When a Responsible Adult allows a Child Family Member Account to participate in games, chat or user-generated content features, they also allow or consent to SIE sharing PI with the publishers of the games, applications, or services that incorporate those features and the collection of PI entered into such features by the Child Family Member Account (e.g., typing text into the chat feature).
If you discover your child under the age of majority in your country or region has created an adult Account, once we verify you are the child's Responsible Adult parent, we can give access and control of the child’s account to you or, depending on your country and region, convert the adult Account into a Child Family Member Account.
If you live in the Americas, we may notify the Family Manager Account if we assess that the activities of the child operating the Child Family Member Account have breached our Code of Conduct.
International Transfers
Our Services operate in many countries, areas, and regions, including the United States, United Kingdom, and Japan, which means that we collect, process and store your PI globally and authorities in these countries may, in certain circumstances, be entitled to access your PI. Privacy laws in some of these countries may not offer the same level of protection as those in the country or region you reside in or are a citizen of. We ensure there are adequate safeguards in place when transferring your PI outside your country including by entering into contracts with the recipients that incorporate the European Commission Standard Contractual Clauses and UK Addendum or other relevant transfer mechanism and require that the transfer only occurs where permitted by applicable law. By using our Services, you acknowledge the transfer, processing, and storage of your PI to or in these countries.
Security
We maintain appropriate technical and organisational security measures that conform to industry standards to help protect your PI against unauthorised or accidental disclosure, access, misuse, loss, or alteration. Although we strive to protect your PI, we cannot ensure or warrant the security of such PI. We recommend you take steps to protect your PI, including:
Use the enhanced account access controls that we make available such as 2-Step Verification and passkey.
Keep any passwords and passcodes for your devices and accounts safe and do not disclose them to anyone else. Avoid using the same password for multiple accounts.
Consider disabling automatic Account log-in and setting up a password at checkout, particularly if your PlayStation device is shared with others.
Contact PlayStation Support immediately if you become aware of any unauthorised use of your Account or other security incidents.

Please visit www.playstation.com and/or contact PlayStation Support if you need any assistance in restricting access to your devices or accounts.
Retention
We retain PI about you as long as it is necessary for us to fulfil the purposes outlined in this Privacy Policy. In addition, we retain your PI as long as is permitted or required to comply with our legal obligations, resolve disputes, and enforce agreements. Where required by applicable law, we will delete your PI when it is no longer necessary. Even if we delete your PI from active databases, your PI may remain on backup or archival media as well as other information systems.
Your Choices and Rights
You have certain choices about how your PI is collected, used, stored, and shared, as described in this section. These choices can be accessed through your Account or device settings. Your choices include:
Personalized Purchase Recommendations: You can choose whether we use the PI we have collected about you to personalize purchase recommendations. Note that we will always slightly customise what you see (e.g., to avoid displaying content you have already purchased from the PlayStation Store), and some older devices, apps and games may still show some commercial personalization.

Personalized Advertisements: You can choose whether we use the PI we have collected about you to serve you advertisements on our Services and third-party websites and applications. If you consent to this, you may see personalized PlayStation advertisements on websites that you visit (e.g., social media websites).
Device data collection: You can choose whether we collect only the limited data that is necessary to provide our Services, or full data to provide a richer experience. Please see About Device Data from your console for more information and how to change your settings.
Communication preferences: You can choose whether we send you marketing emails or push notifications.
Sharing social PI: You can choose whether to share other PI, such as your name, PlayStation friends, or activities with other users, and whether you use social features like text and voice chat.
Shared content: You can choose whether to share content such as gameplay videos with other users.
Voice data collection: You can choose whether we collect voice transcription (excluding spoken voice) to improve our Chat Transcription feature.
Depending on your country or region, you may have additional rights regarding your PI. For example, if applicable, you may manage cookie settings or request more information from us if we make a decision about you or your account solely based on automated decision making that has a significant impact on you. Additional information can be found in the applicable Privacy Policy addendum.

For an alternative accessible PDF of this Privacy Policy please contact us using the information in the Contact Us section of this Privacy Policy.
Contact Us
Please contact us for further information about this Privacy Policy or our processing of your PI, or to make a complaint, by any of the methods described below. We may ask you to verify your identity or, if required, charge a reasonable fee for processing requests, depending on the nature of your query. We may decline to process requests which are not required by applicable laws.
If you live in the Americas , please contact us:
By phone at: 1-800-345-7669
By mail at:

SONY INTERACTIVE ENTERTAINMENT CONSUMER SERVICES DEPARTMENT
2207 BRIDGEPOINTE PARKWAY
SAN MATEO, CALIFORNIA, 94404
Online at: www.playstation.com/support

If you live in Europe, Africa, the Middle East, Australia, New Zealand , India , or Pakistan please contact us:
By mail:

Data Protection Office
Sony Interactive Entertainment Europe Limited / Sony Interactive Entertainment Network Europe Limited
10 Great Marlborough Street
London
United Kingdom
W1F 7LP
Online at: www.playstation.com/data-subject-request
By email at: siee.dpo@sony.com .
Sony Interactive Entertainment Europe Limited and Sony Interactive Entertainment Network Europe Limited are registered in England under company numbers: 03277793 and 06020283.

If you live in Turkey, we have appointed Özdağıstanli Ekici Avukatlık Ortaklığı as our Turkish Data Controller Representative you can contact our Turkish Data Controller Representative by email at info@iptech-legal.com.
If you live in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, Indonesia, Japan, Malaysia, Mainland China, the Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan Region , or Thailand , please contact us:
By phone at:

+852 5814 0155 (Hong Kong Special Administrative Region)
+62 1500 323 (Indonesia)
400 810 8166 (Mainland China)
+60 3 2770 0288 (Malaysia)
+65 6347 5988 (Singapore)
+886 2 7752 7470 (Taiwan Region)
+66 0 2459 0206 (Thailand)
By email at: sie.apac.privacy@sony.com

If you live in South Korea , please see the South Korea addendum for contact details for our domestic agent and personal information protection officer.
Complaints
If you have a concern about our handling of your PI, please get in contact with us first so we can try to resolve your query using the details above. If you feel we have not dealt with your concern and/or that we are failing to meet our legal obligations, you can contact the following:
If you live in Europe, Africa, the Middle East, Australia, New Zealand, India , or Pakistan you can contact your local data protection regulator or the Information Commissioner's Office ("ICO") in the United Kingdom. More information on reporting a concern to the ICO can be found at https://ico.org.uk/.
If you live in Mainland China , you may also seek solutions through external channels by contacting the Cyberspace Administration of China. Their contact details can be found at http://www.cac.gov.cn.
If you live in South Korea, and you need to report or consult with us about any other privacy concerns, please contact the organisations below:
Personal Information Infringement Report Center (118 without area code)
Cyber Crime Investigation Unit, Supreme Prosecutors' Office (02-3480-3571)
National Police Agency Cyber Terror Response Center (182 without area code)

Changes to this Privacy Policy
We may revise this Privacy Policy at any time. By continuing to access or use our Services after those changes become effective, you acknowledge and accept that PI will be handled in accordance with the revised Privacy Policy.
Version 10 (2026.08)
Privacy Policy addendum for the European Economic Area (EEA), the United Kingdom (UK) and Switzerland
This addendum provides additional information required by law if you live in the EEA, UK, or Switzerland. It should be read together with the Privacy Policy.
Your Rights
You can access, amend or delete some PI through your Account settings. You can also exercise these rights, and the other rights described below by contacting us at www.playstation.com/data-subject-request. We reserve the right to deny your requests if we cannot verify your identity or if permitted by applicable law.
Right of access and portability: You have the right to request certain information about the processing of your PI and to be provided with a copy of your PI in some circumstances as defined and required by law. To download a copy of key PI that we process, sign-in to your Account on www.playstation.com and navigate to [Account Settings] > [Privacy Settings] > [Data Access Requests].
Right of erasure: You have the right to request that we delete the PI we have collected or retained about you in some circumstances as defined and required by law. You can close your Account by contacting PlayStation Support. Following your request for deletion, please be aware that the PI that we collect about you may still be retained for legal, accounting, business continuity (backup), anti- fraud and community reasons. PI collected from older games and apps may not be integrated with Account closure. If you have accounts with other Sony group companies, you will need to contact those companies separately to close those accounts. For more information, visit https://www.sony.co.uk/mysony.
Right of rectification: You have the right to rectify your PI in some circumstances as defined and required by law.
Right to object: You have the right to object to the processing of your PI in some circumstances as defined and required by law. For example, you have the right to object to the use of your PI for direct marketing purposes.
Right to restrict: You have the right to restrict the processing of your PI in some circumstances as defined and required by law.

You have the right not to be unlawfully discriminated against because you have exercised these rights.
You can manage cookie settings in accordance with our Cookies Policy.

Home
Legal
Privacy Policy

About
About SIE
Careers
PlayStation Studios
PlayStation Productions
Corporate
History of PlayStation

Products
PS5
PS4
PS VR2
PS Plus
Accessories
Games

Values
Accessibility
Online safety
Diversity, equity & inclusion

Support
Order status
Support hub
PlayStation Safety
Status
PlayStation Repairs
Password reset
Refund Request
Manuals

Resources
Terms of service
PS Store cancellation policy
Modern slavery act statement
Product Security Disclosures
Age ratings
Health warning
Developers
Glossary
Official licensing programme

Connect

PlayStation App (iOS)
PlayStation App (Android)
Join our playtesting program
Beta Program at PlayStation

© 2026 Sony Interactive Entertainment Europe Limited (SIEE)
All content, games titles, trade names and/or trade dress, trademarks, artwork and associated imagery are trademarks and/or copyright material of their respective owners. All rights reserved. More info

United Kingdom
Legal
Privacy policy
Website terms of use
Site Map
Cookies Policy
Software Usage Terms
