Features

Calling Messaging Groups Channels Meta AI Status Security WhatsApp Plus

Privacy Blog Apps Help Center For Business

Log In

Download

Download

Secure by design

To keep you safe, we've designed a messaging and calling experience with world-class security, built innovative tools to put you in control, and we’re there to support you when you need it.

Built-in layers of security give you the peace of mind to focus on connecting with family and friends.

Default privacy

No one can search for your phone number or read your personal messages.

Automatic
spam detection

We catch and remove most spam and scam accounts before they can even reach you or before anyone reports them.

Proactive
security alerts

We prompt you to verify your identity if we detect any suspicious or unauthorized attempts to take over your account.

Take control of your experience

Check out these easy steps to help you stay safe and secure with our multiple layers of protection to prevent hackers and scammers from stealing your account and data.

Enable two-step verification

Set up a secret pin and never share it with anyone to prevent someone from stealing your account.

Learn more

Always use the official WhatsApp

Using fake versions of WhatsApp poses serious privacy and security risks to your account and data.

Learn more

Keep your groups safe

Control who can add you to groups and who can join your groups, and remove members or messages when needed.

Learn more

Learn to spot scams

Get to know common scams and actions you can take to protect yourself and your loved ones.

Learn more

We anticipate and adapt to new risks and provide you with tools to support you when you need it.

Report problematic behavior

Reporting messages, people or businesses helps us keep WhatsApp safe for everyone. Don’t worry, we won’t tell the sender.

Learn more

Block unwanted contact

If someone you don’t want to chat with is messaging you, simply block them and we’ll make sure you no longer receive their messages or calls.

Learn more

Recover your account

If you’ve lost access to your account, re-register your phone number. Past conversations are safe on your phone and cannot be read by any one trying to access your account.

Learn more

Need more help?

See all FAQs

How do I stay safe on WhatsApp?

How do I use WhatsApp responsibly?

How do I protect my WhatsApp account?

How does WhatsApp tackle misinformation?

How does WhatsApp prevent abuse during elections?

How do I know if I’m chatting with a business account on WhatsApp?

See all FAQs

Download

Download

What we do

Features
Blog
Security
For Business

Who we are

About us
Careers
Brand Center
Privacy

Use WhatsApp

Android
iPhone
Mac/PC
WhatsApp Web

Need help?

Contact Us
Help Center
Apps
Security Advisories

Download

2026 © WhatsApp LLC
Terms & Privacy Policy Sitemap

Azərbaycan Afrikaans Bahasa Indonesia Melayu Català čeština Dansk Deutsch Eesti English Español Français Gaeilge Hrvatski Italiano Kiswahili Latviešu Lietuvių Magyar Nederlands Norsk bokmål O‘zbek Filipino Polski Português (Brasil) Português (Portugal) Română Shqip Slovenčina Slovenščina Suomi Svenska Tiếng Việt Türkçe Ελληνικά български қазақ тілі македонски русский српски українська עברית العربية فارسی اردو বাংলা हिन्दी ગુજરાતી ಕನ್ನಡ मराठी ਪੰਜਾਬੀ தமிழ் తెలుగు മലയാളം ไทย 简体中文 繁體中文（台灣） 繁體中文（香港） 日本語 한국어 azərbaycan Afrikaans Bahasa Indonesia Melayu català čeština dansk Deutsch eesti English español français Gaeilge hrvatski italiano Kiswahili latviešu lietuvių magyar Nederlands norsk bokmål o‘zbek Filipino polski Português (Brasil) Português (Portugal) română shqip slovenčina slovenščina suomi svenska Tiếng Việt Türkçe Ελληνικά български қазақ тілі македонски русский српски українська עברית العربية فارسی اردو বাংলা हिन्दी ગુજરાતી ಕನ್ನಡ मराठी ਪੰਜਾਬੀ தமிழ் తెలుగు മലയാളം ไทย 简体中文 繁體中文（台灣） 繁體中文（香港） 日本語 한국어
